gary welcome mate and thank you again
for joining us on a sunday evening
that's all right good to be here good to
see you again pete good man good man so
first and foremost um i've listened to
you quite a bit this week actually and i
did mention this on ig and i just i just
have to ask you to kind of give
the viewers a feel for this letter that
went to rishi sunak you and other people
have signed it are asking them to
basically tax more millionaires so on
and so forth tell us a little bit more
about that before we dive into the whole
budget thing
all right so yeah i remember of this
group called patrick millionaires uk um
that's on my tinder profile and i don't
talk about it too much
basically
the thing we want to start with is and
this is number one message on the ghetto
national insurance has been risen um
well it's going to rise in march it was
announced about a month and a half ago
um
1.25 directly out of your pay packet but
another 1.25 paid by your employer so
effectively 2.5 of your wages being
taxed okay raising tax on ordinary
people but during covid and i've said
this plenty of times people who've heard
me before during kobe billionaire wealth
in this country has risen by 22
okay so
they wanted to raise an extra 10 billion
pounds a year
and they've done that by raising raising
your taxes but if you look at just three
individual families in this country the
lakshmi uh the middles the rubens and
the blavatniks they increase their
wealth
during covid by 20.6 billion pounds just
three families so they could have paid
for that twice over and if we look at
the top 250 billionaires they increase
off by
106 billion pounds so if you work that
out that means the top 250 billionaires
on average increase their wealth by 400
million pounds
during covert during a massive economic
crisis and then at the end of it
the chancellor whose father-in-law is by
the way billionaire has decided he's not
going to raise tax on billionaires
instead he's going to raise taxes on
ordinary people so if you're earning 30
grand a year you're going to pay i think
500 pounds extra more but if you're a
billionaire you'll pay nothing like this
is amazing what's happened
not in a good way right yeah um
so i you know i'm part of this group and
you know i'm i'm involved with the
organizers they said let's write letters
saying look don't tax ordinary people
tax us tax a millionaires and the
billionaires because we are the guys who
can afford to pay it we're the guys who
made money during hobie you need to tax
the billionaires and not ordinary people
so we sent this letter um about a week
ago and we've got a bit of we gotta be a
press on it which you've seen by the
looks of it
yep
and
i think was there not a little bit of a
um
did you
i i caught little bits of it and i think
you there was a stipulation in there
um that demanded or asked for richie to
also consider
the taxation of the ultra ultra wealthy
class that you're talking about the
billionaires there is that right for me
i always say that and i mean look i'm
not a billionaire you know um but
when i talk about taxing wealthy people
you know there are millionaires
especially down in the southeast where
houses cost a lot of money you know what
i mean there might not be crazy crazy
ritual if you are millionaire you're
definitely financially comfortable
they're worried
because they see it all the time that
governments bring in taxes on the rich
they put in loopholes and the super rich
get avoided and in the end ends up
falling in the middle class there's one
example of this which i love is which is
um when the government brought in a tax
on an extra tax on second home purchases
three extra three percent they put in a
clause if you bought seven or more at
once you didn't have to pay the extra
tax and then jeremy hunt who was health
minister at the time went and bought and
is a multi-millionaire went and bought
seven properties you know what i mean so
we have to tax the richest but ordinary
people they they're used to this
situation right where governments the
chancellor's father was a billionaire
david cameron went and made two million
pounds as soon as he left they're run by
multi-millionaires and billionaires they
bring in these taxes they put in
loopholes that very often people are
going to use and it falls on ordinary
people so people are concerned about
that
so i'm always saying yes tax the rich
but you have to make sure you tax the
riches too you have to because otherwise
they're just going to get richer and
richer and richer which ultimately means
them owning assets instead of us and
that's why ordinary people find it
difficult more difficult to own assets
absolutely so that brings us on to like
the budget this week i know that you've
done sort of the rounds on on radio and
stuff like that around your thoughts on
the budget
what's your general thoughts on on the
budget and
do you think he's done enough for
ordinary people within the budget as it
currently is or do you think well he's
given a little bit but not really given
that much but he's definitely taken from
this sector here do you think he's gone
far far enough
so the first thing to say is there's
always a big element of political
theater with the budget they come out
they get all the news shows they want to
make themselves look good
but ultimately
it tends to be taking a bit of money
from some people and giving a bit of
money to other people so if you want to
actually have a look at there's lots of
things that have been changed you know
there's been
they're not going to raise petrol duty
like they said they've begun they've
reduced tax on beer i think that's just
to get some good headlines but let's
look at the big hitters the things which
are going to make or lose big amounts of
money
the biggest thing which was
pre-announced before the budget was was
the national insurance rise that that's
big that's big that's literally two and
a half percent off of the pay packet of
ordinary people everything you earn
above i think it's about nine thousand
pounds you pay an extra two and a half
percent that's big that's that's a lot
of money it's that all coming in next
tax year so april next year and you'll
see that that will be less money in your
pay packet and that makes the government
a lot of money so there's a big
significant increase in tax on working
people i want to make it clear that
national insurance and i've got a good
video explaining this on my youtube if
anyone wants to understand more clearly
national insurance is different from
income tax because it's only paid by
working people so very wealthy people
who make their money off of
assets and you know i make money off of
assets because i'm a wealthy person
we will pay nothing well for people will
pay nothing if you have a billion pounds
in assets you'll pay nothing so
an increase in tax on ordinary working
people that's number one
where have they given back so the one
thing they've done is
they've reduced the effective tax rate
you pay if you um just are on a very low
income and start working
so at the moment
if you're not working you get universal
credit but as you start working that
gets taken away what that means is
because you're you're paying tax when
you start working out and also losing
your benefit the effective tax rate you
pay is really really high i think it was
so they're gonna take that universal
credit away a bit more slowly which
means if you're on a low income and
you're still claiming benefits then
you'll get a little bit more so it's a
bit of a shift away from ordinary
working people to
people on lower incomes
but at the same time they're taking away
the 20 pound uplift so that basically
completely undoes that so ultimately
for me the end message is
less money in your pocket for basically
everyone you know unless you're unless
you're super rich um and i've been
blowing the horn about this because i
think this is a disgrace given how much
money billionaires are making that's why
i'm writing these letters
but that is the truth and that's
happening
on top of a time when we're seeing very
high inflation in basic essentials
energy gas food yeah petrol
so
you know that's a pessimistic message
but it's a difficult time and you know
when we get a bit of time i'd like to
talk about that inflation and why it's
happening because i think the government
is involved in that as well but just
taking the budget just for now
yeah so raising taxes on all the
networking people
there's a little bit given back to lower
income people but it's given with one
hand taken with the other because on the
other hand of that if you're on a low
income
you're getting taxed a little bit less
you've lost your universal credit 20
pound uplift and
you're paying more for all of your
essentials now so
yeah unfortunately
and i always seem to be giving these
messages it's not a great picture for
most people yeah i mean because i was
looking at the taper rate that they
referred to in um on the universal
credit i think he said he's going to go
down from 63 pence or something like
that to 53 pence by december 1st which
is the it's the threshold at which you
start to lose your additional bit i mean
you look at the estimates and this is
the one thing that always drives me nuts
when you when you listen to a budget
it's full of numbers right
but how do the numbers actually
translate and as you've as you said
there with the cost of fuel prices
energy prices already going up you know
that that cut to the to the universal
credit in terms of that 20 pound that
they've taken away how much of a
difference is that actually really going
to make on a day-to-day basis for people
realistically i know that he's increased
you know the the news of increasing uh
the national living wage from 8 pound
one to nine pounds fifty
which i think
that does help
but when you offset that again just in
line with information really yeah just a
line of inflation especially because
lower income people spend more of their
income on the things which are going up
now which is energy transport food
absolutely absolutely was there anything
else that kind of jumped out to you
because there's a couple of things that
i wanted to kind of like touch on a bit
later on and there was one there was one
part of the budget that he that he spoke
about and i thought to myself
immediately after hearing it it sounds
very good
but haven't they been saying this
for years and years and years
and then it comes back down to
effective management
and raising more money so he said
basically
that
or he alluded to the fact of what the
what the ideal scenario moving forward
is on this whole
new chapter of budget responsibility was
they would only borrow
to invest in the future
and that everyday spending should be
funded from the tax tech
now
if you can't raise enough taxes
at this point in time and you've got
debt to service
how is that even
fiscally responsible
without addressing the tax system
yeah this is the kind of thing which
governments love to say which is we're
we want to be fiscally responsible we're
not going to spend
more than we take in taxes
uh and people like to hear that i think
but i think people should be a little
bit concerned because
look back at during covered the
government did a huge amount of money
450 billion pounds they spent extra
during kobe which is massive by the way
it's the next it's 10 000 pounds per
adult in the country enormous amount
you can't get that money out of nowhere
it's very difficult to very rapidly
raise taxes like that so what did they
do
they borrowed it from themselves
essentially by printing it um
and that what that meant i think if you
compare kovid to
2008 crisis
covered was a much more significant real
economic crisis you know people actually
genuinely had to stay at home but
people's incomes were protected and that
was because the government was willing
to borrow and spend
and it meant that there was much less
much less loss of job and much less loss
of income than it was in 2008 so if
they're going to tie their hands on
things like this
they're going to say we're not going to
borrow then that leaves two other
options right which are raising taxes
and we see that they prefer to raise
your taxes ordinary working people's
taxes
or cutting services you know i mean so
um
look i'm totally
supportive of
taxing instead of borrowing but who are
you going to tax the question the
question is always who are you going to
tax because
we're in this situation now where in an
economic crisis
the average billionaire makes 400
million pounds in one year of crisis
and then someone earning 30 grand a year
has to pay 500 quid extra tax yeah you
know so i want to just take it we always
talk about fiscally responsible
government you know don't tax too much
but
is it fiscally responsible to allow
these billionaires to accumulate 106
billion pounds during a crisis is that
fiscally responsible you know so okay so
i i know that there'll be people who
will watch this stream after the fact
that may not necessarily be here right
now that will say they will ask this one
question and i think i know the answer
to it but i'm going to ask you it anyway
and i think you had it
either this week
um
on the radio with someone and you
answered it beautifully
but i do want to just ask this question
for the benefit of everybody
there is this age-old argument of
this whole trickle down economics
doesn't work if you tax the wealthy it
doesn't work they're just gonna up
sticks they're gonna leave
so
what is your response to that having
been in the environment where you are in
economy so you can see
and you have made a lot of money
predicting
markets and the economic outcomes for
the last good good enough years why not
tax how would you tax them i guess is
the better question
in an efficient way that means they
contribute more in opposed to going
after um the traditional beans like
earned income
so this yeah this question gets thrown
at me all the time which is look if you
can't tax them if you tax them they'll
leave
if they leave the money's gone there's
nothing we can do and um i understand
people saying this but i think this the
reason people say this is because we
have in our society and our media kind
of simplistic conception of what it
means to be rich and what a wealthy
person is which is we imagine this guy
he's a billionaire we imagine he's just
got like a massive you know like
swimming pool full of cash loads and
loads of cash huge bags for the cash if
we tax him he'll leave packs all the
bags in the cash and suitcases and goes
and the cash is gone but that is not
actually what welfare people are wealthy
people yeah of course they do have some
cash but the vast majority of the wealth
is assets okay that's
property properties in this country land
land in this country
debt a lot of what they have is is other
people's debt that you know the debt
that people out list they might have on
their mortgage or in their car that is
owed to a wealthy person that is part of
their wealthy person's wealth and also
corporations which sell
to customers in this country
so if they leave the properties are
still here the land is still here the
people who are in debt are still here
and the customers for their companies
are still here so we can tax them on
their assets you don't need their
physical presence to be here you know
what i mean so i think we need to start
looking at look who owns the things in
our country and you know we've spoken
about explaining to people more clearly
what is wealth i've got a video about it
we did a long podcast on it
these guys own our country the assets in
our country if they leave
those assets are still here and we can
tax them so i think we need to start
having a clearer understanding of what
rich people are and understandably they
own
our our country they own our houses they
own our supermarkets they own our land
they own our electricity providers that
own our natural resources and you know
if they leave
those resources still exist and we can
still tax them
i think you make a really good point
there because i mean especially if you
look at london it's probably a prime
example of this all the houses in
kensington chelsea that may not
necessarily be lived in but they're
owned by foreign nationals for example
and you get into the nitty gritty of you
know supply versus demand particularly
in london and the property market you
know these mark these these properties
are held owned
not lived in more in most cases
that's a property that's out of the
circulation which further then goes to
increase the the demand problem well the
supply problem versus the demand so
it's
it's taken it back very much to the
basics of okay what what are the
fundamental principles
i guess the big question will be for
many people is well how do you actually
go about taxing the assets
and i think that's probably where you
start getting into the the whole issue
of from a political point of view from a
governmental point of view is there the
will there to actually do that and do
they have the brass to actually do that
as well considering that they're
essentially increasing taxes on
themselves and all of their friends i
guess yeah i mean this is the big
concern right look i know i keep banging
on about it but it's the truth our
chancellor's father-in-law is a
billionaire that's not a millionaire a
billionaire that means he has wealth of
over 1 000 million pounds okay that is
an enormous amount of wealth okay
that probably affects the chances
personal opinions no that wealth will
probably pass down to the chancellor's
kids the chance of kids will probably be
billionaires does he want billionaires
to pay for higher taxes knowing that his
kids will probably be billionaires and
you know it's not just a chance you know
david cameron when he left office he
went to work for green sale and he made
10 million pounds so now he's an
extremely wealthy individual nick clegg
went on for facebook he's definitely a
multi-millionaire now you know what i
mean so the politicians
they
mostly the senior ones are either
already multi-millionaires or in
richardson's case effectively
billionaires when they're in office or
they become multi-millionaires when they
leave office so it's kind of not in
their interest to raise taxes on on the
very rich because they if they're not
very rich now will probably become very
rich later and you know that's why
i always try and talk to ordinary people
and say look it's people like you
your communities your families that are
being hurt here and being taxed and
those politicians are not representing
your interests and
if we want to protect our communities
and our families we need to
enforce our political power on these
people the way that we can you know
by voting by complaining you know what i
mean by talking in the media this is the
it's down to us because the politicians
are not going to do it for us unless we
make them do it um it's interesting i
remember reading a
i read a story
this is probably about a month or so
maybe a month and a half maybe two
months ago and i was going to do a video
on it and i completely forgot in the end
something else came up but it had to do
with um
prince philip
and the fact that um
the estate that he passed down
is not on public record
that it's sealed
and there was a whole conversation on on
one of the forums that was like well
why
i think the argument was it's being sill
because it's not in the public's
interest to know
what's been passed down
and
in this and in this world of inheritance
attacks and inheritance tax it is a form
of taxation
i can't remember if you i can't there
was a there was something that stood out
to me on that around the inheritance
planning the inheritance tax tied side
to things that essentially it was going
to be passed down whatever it was that
he passed on we don't know how big the
estate was going to be but whatever it
was that he was going to pass down is
essentially zero inheritance tax like
nothing
yeah but the general public won't get to
see what's actually been passed down and
i think that's just a continuation of
what you're trying to trying to say
there really yeah and i mean
people don't like inheritance tax a lot
of people and i totally understand that
but the situation right now is
if you come from an average family or
poor family
and you want to make your way up to like
financial security which is what your
channel was all about
um if you get yourself into a well-paid
job which is you know one of the best
ways to do it it's not easy but one of
the best ways to do it you're going to
be paying once you add everything income
tax national insurance more than 50 tax
okay
and you can work your nuts off and i
know because i've done it and you're
going to pay i was paying 50 income tax
i'm more than 60 total tax um
and yet look you know i'm out there
saying i'm a millionaire so i made that
money and i paid my 50 and i'm proud to
have done it because it supports the
country and the schools and the
hospitals and and the society that we
live in
but at the same time as i'm paying 50 on
my million pounds the duke of
westminster inherits 12 billion and pays
nothing right you know i mean like
how can that possibly be fair you know i
mean this guy has made six thousand
times as much money without getting out
of bed
and he hasn't paid any tax and i think
it's easy to think oh well that's damn
that doesn't affect us that doesn't
affect us well look
it's not just cash in a bag these are
properties these guys these guys own
your house you know what i mean and then
they take your
income and they use it to buy even more
houses so then if you're allowing these
billionaires to have 12 billion pounds
pay no tax keep all the income from it
pay no tax you can't be surprised that
when you or your kids go out to buy a
house they can't afford it because
they're competing with the duke of
westminster's kids you know what i mean
but ultimately
if these guys have unbelievable amounts
of money of course houses will be
expensive because you're competing with
them you know what i mean so um
i think it's just about a fair balance
of the tax system you know what i mean
i'm happy to pay tax but it's gone back
it's almost like you know we have this
idea the ritual the more tax you pay but
it's almost gone back to the sort of
like the middle ages idea where if
you're like a peasant and you work you
pay tax to the
to that aristocracy you know what i mean
because they are not paying it they're
not paying tax you know i mean
i'm happy to pay my tax but why are the
billionaires not paying it why am i
paying 50 and a billionaire's pay five
percent there's just no way to justify
this yeah i mean i think
i
argument that i have heard with this is
well
and i paid 50 most of my career in in
financial services and trust me it hurts
when you look at it on the on the pay on
the page slip it does
but
with that being said it is kind of like
if you go to hospital you use public
services it is there as a bill and i
think the common argument that most
people will basically label is well
you're 50 or my 50 when i was working
it's very very different to a 5 from a
billionaire so therefore
the percentage comparison
is out the window because even at five
percent they're contributing way more on
a monetary figure in terms of tax and
i'm like well okay
i get that
but at the same time
the loopholes that are available at that
kind of level are not available to
everyday people
yeah that's going to work let's go into
the numbers of this right let's assume
you have 1 billion pounds a billionaire
you just made it just scraped into
billionaire right one billion pounds
you will make
cash flow off of that asset all right so
let's assume they make three percent if
you're a billionaire you'll probably be
able to make three percent it's not like
super aggressive that means they're
making every year 30 million pounds okay
so let's say we say we only tax him five
percent because we're gonna make loads
okay so we tax five percent of 30
million pounds so we're taxing one and a
half million pounds great we made one
and a half million pounds off of that
guy well the other 28 and a half million
pounds goes to him okay what is he going
to do with 20 and a half million pounds
he ain't going to go and spend twenty
and a half million pounds in vegas right
he's gonna spend one million pounds a
year living like the queen and he's
gonna use the other 27.5 million pounds
to buy houses to buy land to buy stocks
and shares and that's going to push the
price of those things up you know like
it drives me mad you know we're sitting
here talking about the housing crisis
housing crisis build more houses build
my house and build my houses if that
guy's out there making 27.5 million
pounds a year just for getting out of
bed it doesn't matter how many houses
you build he's the guy who's going to
buy them you know what i mean because
you know 27 that's a guy with 1 billion
pounds you know what i mean so if you
don't tax these guys then they generate
so much cash flow from the rest of us by
the way you know we are the guys who go
to work not them you know i mean
from us and we are not going to be able
if you're out there and in 50 grand a
year or even a hundred grand a year how
are you going to compete with a guy
who's making 27.5 million pounds a year
i think we need to open our eyes a
little bit like we've been so naive as
to like what it does the economy when
you allow the rich to have so much money
it drives you mad people don't connect
expensive housing with unbelievably rich
rich people
i mean the connect
it should be clear right but obviously
but then again it's this this is the
kind of stuff that isn't really taught
or explained at the very fundamental
levels when it comes to
the underlying operational system in the
education system which even if you study
economics you're not going to talk about
you don't really talk about wealth and
assets seriously at all
exactly and i think this is this is the
kind of stuff that should be explained
in very very
basic kindergarten methods
to kids in schools it's like monopoly it
is monopoly essentially when you're
playing the game monopoly why not bring
that into the conversation in schools
for example if you if you manage to get
a house on mayfair or monopoly you build
some houses and hotels in there anybody
who passes through pays rent and i like
in life sometimes to monopoly and the
fact that you know a lot of us will will
go out we'll earn a load of money but do
really really well but we never really
acquire the assets during the times you
just pass in a monopoly board yeah
that's the best collecting salary not
buying anything along the way from an
ordinary background
like i do like i know you do um you're
thinking oh if i can make like a 60
grand the 80 grand a job i'm sorted and
you're just thinking about day-to-day
cash because it's a lot of money but you
don't realize
there's all these assets out there all
of these properties land natural
resources corporations like you know i
like to tell people walk down the high
street look at all them buildings all
them shops the pubs the bars the clubs
the restaurants the shopping malls right
the supermarket somebody owns all of
them things and it's not it's not
ordinary people you know what i mean
and um
yeah they're very wealthy own those
things so i think i just want to sort of
open people's eyes a little bit to say
look
it's not just cash in a bag if these
guys are super super super super rich
then they make money from those assets
coming from you who don't own those
assets every time you go to the
supermarket some of the money goes to
owner of the supermarket when you pay
your rent it don't disappear when you
pay a mortgage it don't disappear it
goes these wealthy people and if they're
generating all of those cash flows it's
gonna push the prices of things like
housing up
absolutely there are some other bits and
pieces as well in the um and again this
is when you look at the budget we
it's numbers numbers numbers numbers
numbers yeah yeah and it's like you look
at it
right so unemployment numbers not as
high as they as they said it was going
to be or they thought it was going to be
it was forecasted 12
actually it's coming at 5.2 percent
now they will load that and say oh you
know this is fantastic and all that but
i i question
how much of that drop
is because people have now been forced
after covid to start businesses
like to start their own little um
adventures themselves in the post going
into
well-paying
jobs yeah in in in really um
well-paying sectors
that's always been an interesting one
for me because yeah i mean it's great
because it shows that obviously
we're on a path to recovery but on ta on
a tangible basis day-to-day basis how
much of that is an actual gainful
employment with you know decent wages
yeah i think
this is you know we we focus on
employment and look anyone who's been
under a long period of time will know
what a serious problem it can be um
and back if you look historically 20 30
years ago especially in some countries
in europe even some now there are
problems with high levels of
unemployment but the truth is nowadays
in modern britain with unemployment
benefits being what they are the truth
is like
most people can't be unemployed it's
like not an option really like you
cannot afford to be unemployed for a
very long period of time so like if you
make unemployment benefits as low as
they are especially in the world when a
lot of people don't have a lot of wealth
then
of course unemployment will be low
because people have to get a job and
people yeah exactly like you say like
whatever the situation you know
everything shuts down they have to find
something you know what i mean they're
going to go and deliver for amazon you
know what i mean they're going to be
doing deliveroo they're going to be
doing whatever is an option you know i
mean so i actually think in in modern
britain especially because some other
countries do have better safety nets for
unemployed people um
you can make the unemployment rate low
just by making it not an option not a
feasible option you basically say look
if you're unemployed we're giving you so
little money that you're going to get a
job you know what i mean and then what
that means then is instead of
unemployment you get low wages obviously
because if you're forcing everyone to go
out and like this if you if you're
making people desperate for a job then
of course wages will go down because the
employers will know but there's all
these desperate guys out there that need
jobs you know what i mean and that is
why
it drives me mad i remember in 2011 when
i was working we had a very similar
situation to now where unemployment was
falling quite quickly but costs were
going up a lot and wages were flat and
everybody was saying oh the economic
recovery is really strong but we've got
a cost of living crisis
and i remember thinking man
what is a strong economy to you guys if
it can involve a cost of living crisis
like seriously and and we're going back
into that situation now because you know
listen i studied economics at london
school of economics at oxford right i
know the kind of guys that study
economics and then places they are not
being hurt by this okay they're sitting
back they're looking at the numbers and
they're like well unemployment is low
gdp growth is higher than we thought
it's a strong economy oh but there's a
cost of living crisis you know what i
mean but the cost of living crisis is a
weak economy you know i mean like that's
what i want to tell these guys but um
but that's you know if you don't allow
people to be unemployed if you told if
you tell people unemployment listen
there's guys out there
if you if you lose your job you're going
to be homeless so you're going to find a
job you know what i mean yeah so if you
if you make unemployment an option of
course unemployment will be low but what
you'll get is low wages and then what
you'll get is a cost of living crisis
especially if at the same time you pump
400 billion pounds into the pockets of
the rich it's sorry i'm getting
passionate but it's not what's happening
it's mad honestly and that though brings
us on to the topic of
taxing business
and
and that one is a complicated one as
well because the argument there will be
well if you raise taxes on businesses
and particularly big national or
international conglomerates well they
just go off to germany and set up shop
there and you know with brexit there's
been stories and and companies that have
left hsbc moving out into europe and all
that kind of stuff how do you but
but then you still look at the likes of
amazon for example share price went
through the roof they did extremely well
during covet because of well the fact
that everyone was at home and
amazon was the place to to to basically
buy stuff
you think of it that way
how do you go about
taxing businesses to ensure that
actually you know what not only are they
paying their fair share but also i think
things like you know national eliminate
wage will go a long way to actually
forcing the companies to actually pay a
decent wage how do you get that extra
out of them based on their turnover and
their profits um
in in the uk for example even though a
lot of them will be banked offshore
so i think one thing we can do is we can
start looking at taxing these companies
not based on where their legal
jurisdiction is but on where their sales
are like this is it's part of the
conversation i think it's insane that we
don't do that to be honest you know i
mean why do we allow a company a massive
company to be based in
ireland nothing against ireland i think
that's where amazon is based but we know
that 99 of themselves are outside of
ireland you know what i mean so why is
the profit all booked in ireland you
know we shouldn't allow that you know we
shouldn't allow that and then it's
exactly what i said before you know like
we have this idea like the company can
just go like amazon's just gonna gonna
go to bermuda right yeah amazon does not
exist in bermuda amazon makes its
profits because it sells to people in
the us in the uk in the eu in japan in
australia in the rich world you know
what i mean and
these countries all suffering similar
problems with regards to not being able
to get sufficient money
to fund their public services sufficient
money for the richest people so let's
get together and say look
if they go to bermuda then we'll say if
you want to deal in our countries pay
tax in our countries like it's
it's a myth like it's a myth that you
know like that the turks and caicos
island is holding the world to ransom
you know what i mean these these
companies do their business in the rich
world they make their profits from the
rich world we can tax them we can say if
you want to do business here you have to
pay taxes and you know
ultimately i think it's it's because
these companies have powerful lobbying
firms you know
nick clegg went from government to
facebook
you know i mean like if you want to know
why we don't raise taxes on these guys
that is why we don't raise taxes on
these guys of course we can raise them
it's this myth that they're going to go
and they're just going to be in bermuda
and there's nothing we can possibly do
there's no way we can tax he lives in
bermuda now nobody can find him you know
what i mean
these are the biggest corporations in
the world doing business in our company
their trucks are all over the country we
can tax them it's it's a madness
honestly it's a madness what what can
you say
that's where it comes down to political
political um willingness to be able to
do this and i look when we talk about
companies like amazon i'm kind of like
torn because it's kind of like
i understand i mean i use the service
i've bought so much stuff from amazon in
the last year two years maybe it's
ridiculous pretty much everything here
in this room is from amazon in some way
shape or form right
and obviously i talk a lot about
investing on the channel and um
i'm planning a video where i'm going to
talk about you know elon musk he's
probably going to be the first
trillionaire on the planet in human
history because he's got his finger in
so many pies but when you look at
billionaires
i always think well okay right so
they've created a business and this is
the capitalists
um ideology around this well you've
created a business that solves a problem
that provides a service or a product to
millions of people then you are more
than entitled to reap the rewards of the
success of that business because you
took the risk and all that i completely
get that
but also it's the it's the notion and
jeff bezos said this when he was asked
about his net worth and why he should be
allowed to be worth 126
billion dollars he goes well if you
think about the value of my business
it's worth this much i'm personally
worth this much which means that i've
generated wealth for thousands of people
to the tune of the difference of what
i'm worth and i'm like okay i get that
and because i talk about investing i'm
like well
this is where
taking part and buying amazon shares and
all of those kind of things are really
important
but even with the conversation and the
encouragement of like you need to have a
piece of amazon you need to have a piece
of facebook and all this kind of stuff
it still comes down to the fundamental
principle that we're talking about here
which is taxation because at the end of
the day
even if you hold you know 10 000 shares
in facebook
you're still going to get paid get taxed
on it and unfortunately
there's still going to be a disparity in
the
brackets of that social stratosphere if
that makes any sense
yeah i mean look i come into this as an
economist you know what i mean like for
me
the reason i came into this world is
because my job after the 2008 crisis was
to say will the economy get better and
um everybody thought it would and i
they kept me wrong and i come to the
conclusion that if you don't do
something about inequality the economy
won't get better so for me sometimes
people ask me like is there a
contradiction you know you made a lot of
money personally and now i'm involved in
investing but at the same time you want
to reduce inequality by raising tax on
the rich and i say like no there's no
contradiction at all like you are
allowed to want to have a good life for
yourself and for your family and for
your kids and also want society to not
be terrible like you can of course want
both of those things and like i'm fully
supportive of people out there who come
from poor backgrounds like i don't come
from ordinary backgrounds and want to
make their way up you know what i mean
but currently we're living in a system
where if you do that
you're paying 40 50 60 taxes
and then you need to buy a property
which you know if you're down here in
london you're paying like 600 grand for
a two-bed flat
that's unbelievably difficult yeah just
you know just to get yourself on the
level and the thing is that's even crazy
on on a hundred thousand pounds a year
yeah yeah yeah unrealistic in yeah yeah
yeah exactly so then you end up in a
situation where
even if you do work hard and you you
know are talented and you do get lucky
and you do go to the right school and
you do get the right degree you do get
the right job you're still running
uphill and then there's other people out
there who come from wealthy families
that are just getting 300 grand deposit
from their dad and paying nothing on it
yeah
like that's it's just not right
yeah there's no way to argue against
this like if people you know
listen i fully believe people should be
able to make money and people should
even be able to get rich i fully believe
it i've done it myself you know and i
want people to be able to do that but
what i'm fighting for when i say tax to
rich it's not about stopping people from
getting rich it's about allowing people
to get rich because think about it if we
create a society which we're creating
now
where
rich people can guarantee that their
kids will be rich then that guarantees
that poor people's kids will be poor
because if all the assets go directly
from rich dad to rich kid then what's
left for the poor poor kids you know
what i mean
that's the situation is this the
stacking of the odds against the other
um
other classes and i think it's really
important because look
i always say this all the time and i
think you're a prime example of this
that you know
especially when you don't come from a
privileged background
you start off from the blocks that
you're given
and maybe when you're much much younger
you make you may be oblivious to it you
may become aware of it as you get older
but as you get older you kind of start
to open your eyes to your surroundings
you kind of focus in and start you know
what you want to do and then you have to
fight against the odds to get from your
first job paying you pittance to you
know the levels that you actually get to
and
it's unfortunate because the picture
that you're painting here and it's
absolutely true
is that
with the wealth being concentrated in a
certain area or population a certain
segment of the population
that's how you get to the place where
you're earning a hundred thousand pounds
which is six figures a year and you
can't afford a flat a roof over your
head
yeah it's absolutely bonkers and don't
and to get to a hundred thousand pounds
a year is not easy yeah that's that's
not easy the average wage is something
about 30 grand you know what i mean so
100 grand is a massive wage exactly and
and when you think about 100 grand a
year
it's it's that number i remember when i
was when i was in my 20s or so i think
my first job was something like i was
getting paid like i got like 700 quid a
month or something like that and that
was like back in
98 so 700 quid went a little bit further
than it did today right and i always
said to myself i get to like 50 grand a
year yeah happy days you know what i
mean 60 grand a year happy days and i
think most people
are actually quite comfortable and would
be happy if they reach that level but
the way with the way things are going
with property prices and so on and so
forth yeah yeah if you are in london
you're not you're not getting anything
you're looking for ladder for 650 60
grand a year in london and i want people
to make that connection that the reason
house prices are expensive is because
rich people are unbelievably rich i want
people to make that connection but then
i also want people to be able to sort of
hold one thing in either hand which is
on the one hand look
i know the situation is stacked against
me but what can i do you know what i
mean i don't want people to feel
disempowered because look it's true i'm
saying the situation is stacked against
ordinary people but there are things you
can do you know number one thing is you
know don't waste money live within your
means you know what i mean um
don't spend money on privilege things if
you can avoid it and i know that can be
difficult for some people because you
know sometimes there's not that many
pleasures in life but look save up what
you can stack it up look for sensible
investments and you know i wish there
were investments out there that were
both secure and guaranteed good returns
but there's no way to guarantee good
returns about taking risk but you know
take sensible diversified investments
build your assets up and try and work
towards getting a property however you
can you know however works for you
families need to get together especially
older generations sometimes you own
properties there's things you can do you
can release equity to help your kids get
deposits because the truth is that's
what the rich families are doing so
that's what you're going to have to do
probably to compete with them and these
are not good easy discussions to have
but i think that's what ordinary
families need to do that but at the same
time as you're doing what you can to
support your family
you need to realize that other stacked
against you
and
you need to also
be active in that fight and i'm not
saying you need to go out there marching
the streets of placards but just
talk to your friends talk to your family
and say look
things are getting harder for people
like us people from our sort of
background people from our sort of
community whilst the rich are getting
richer that's pushing property price up
and making it difficult just let people
know you know i'm making videos you can
come look at my channel gary's economics
understand them spread them you know
i've got a website worth economics.org
if people prefer to read
understand what's happening
talk to your friends talk to your family
talk to your workmates just explain to
them look if we don't do something about
the wealth of the super rich then it's
ordinary people like us and our kids
that will be left behind so i want
people to just
understand there's no disconnect do what
you can and what you need to do for your
family but also understand the only way
to really protect not just your wider
community but also your family and
younger generations is to be active
politically as well and that doesn't
mean you have to support political party
it just means you need to be
understanding what's happening educating
yourself and educating people around you
and you know that's going to help you in
your investment decisions as well
because you're going to understand the
more clearly
the economy that we're living and you
know i know it's not positive all the
time but i think
in difficult times it's important to
try and develop an understanding as well
as we can of what's going on i think at
the end of the day it's all about
awareness
it's it's having the awareness so that
you know how the field is stacked
against you and hopefully that leads to
you being able to devise a
a route around the obstacles you know
it's important as well for mental health
because i see i see like i went to
grammar school i was expelled from
grammar school actually but there's some
kids there from poorer backgrounds and
some kids from richer backgrounds and
they see the kids from richer
backgrounds like getting houses and all
this and that and they think like how
did they do that why why wasn't i able
to do that and they don't realize that
behind the scenes these guys are getting
big chunks of money from their parents
and you know these are people who are
not the super rich by any means you know
what i mean but it's it's actually
hidden from view from ordinary people
how unfair the system is behind the
scenes and then you can end up in a
situation where you're doing your best
you're trying your hardest and you're
making maybe you're making 40 50 grand a
year which is a good salary but in
london you know it can be difficult to
have a family on that and you're
thinking what am i doing wrong and you
can get depressed but you don't realize
look if you're out there making 40 50
grand a year or even if you're making
fairy even if you're making 25 and
you're making ends meet you are doing
well in a system stacked against you so
don't beat yourself up so i think that
understanding i see especially from
young men who judge who are judged and
judge themselves in their financial
situation yeah
they see them they beat themselves up
but
you should be proud of what you achieve
if you come from a poor background
because the situation is stacked against
you so
do your best you know do what you can
and just you know be proud of what you
achieve and this understanding of the
unfairness of the system i think can
actually be
can be good for the well-being of
ordinary people yeah
mate 100 because
this is where education is really really
important and i hope that you know
anyone who watches this video at least
takes that message
even from a personal experience for me
like with my background like i've seen
i've been i've lived up in nigeria for
10 years where look we had no food for
like three four days like no electric no
running water no nothing
and there are there are certainly layers
to this
i thought coming back to the uk because
i was born here in
you know 79 and getting back over here
in 98 i thought right okay there was my
oyster you know i've got opportunity
here i didn't really realize until much
much later on that actually i start i'm
at the bottom of the pile actually and
when you start talking about you know
getting on property ladders it's like
well
i meet people and it's like they're
driving a nice car it's like what do you
do oh my dad bought it for me and it's
like then you start and i think
everybody go who is from our background
goes through that realization at some
point when they start meeting other
people from different socio-economic
groups that hang in a second you're not
quite where that person is
and you start that's where for me i can
get you on that hamster wheel where you
start trying it you start buying
expensive watches and you're buying the
things that that maybe it would be wiser
to save up and buy a house because
you'll feel insecure and you want to
compare with them
exactly if you understand look that guy
started the race 50 yards ahead of me
you then you you can stop beating
yourself up for being 20 yards behind
you know what i mean yeah exactly
because dude the first time i started
making real money in canada wharf what
did i do i why we're not buying watches
and thousand pound suits and all this
nonsense right you're not the first
person to do it because i'm like
this is what my guys in the office are
doing so i've got i've got to fit in
somehow i'm part of this crowd now i've
got to fit into this card even though i
didn't feel as though i belonged like i
felt like i've got a i've gotta make up
for the inadequacies that i thought were
telling on me when it's like actually
when you step back and maybe you know
hindsight is a beautiful thing and
experience is a beautiful thing in
hindsight and and looking back i'm like
actually it doesn't really matter at all
yeah yeah in the moment it did matter i
was like okay i need to find a way to be
able to fit in here and i think that's
really important certainly when it comes
to this kind of like the mental health
side of things and just the general
expectations that people place on
themselves
like you're saying like if if you if
you've got to a job where you're doing
25 grand a year and you were you know 15
grand a year two years ago give yourself
a pat on the back because you've done
well and that's the important thing
making progress yeah man just understand
that you know
the system is not fair and people start
on very very different levels and some
people are given a massive massive head
start so like
do what you can with what you have you
know i mean and you know appreciate the
things that you have around you you know
i mean whether that's a good family or
good friends or you know what i mean or
like good hobbies whatever like
appreciate the things that you have and
you know
use
an understanding of what's happening to
to try and help make things better and
an understanding of the economy to try
and
make those slow progress and slow
progress is important because you know
we've spoken about this before there's a
lot of guys on the internet now that are
selling get rich quick schemes i'm
really worried about them
this kind of idea like oh my god
everyone so far ahead i need to catch up
is what can make you vulnerable to them
sort of thing so yeah be proud of the
wins that you make develop an
understanding for yourself and try and
build towards so pro slow progress not
like i said there's plenty of stuff on
my channel people are interested to
understand more about this you know yeah
definitely go check out gary's channel i
will link it i'll do something in the in
the um the title to this video as well i
gotta ask you this is off piece by the
way
in canada wharf did you ever be like
okay go and buy something really
outlandish the first bit moment where
you started to make some really good you
know what i don't really
my first job was a paper and then i got
12 pounds a week and i spent all one
trainers you know what i mean so you're
spending like two months salary on a
pair of cnn you know i mean
and then i was working in dfs and i was
making 40 pounds a day but as soon as i
got into you know i want my job in a
card game i think we spoke about this on
our podcast right but then like
by the as soon as i got into the city
i was obsessed and i'm going to be the
best at this i'm going to be the best at
trading i'm going to be the best at this
and i was so into the markets right
i didn't even have time to spend money
man i didn't even have time to spend
money like it was just like
it was just like you know like
i'm like i wanted to be the best at this
thing i'm sure this is how cristiano
ronaldo feels when he goes that play
yeah yeah like because the thing is
you know i come from east london you
know a pretty rough area
and then i felt like you're going to the
city everyone's going to be a genius but
i got there and i realized straight away
listen i'm as good as these guys right
and if these guys can make a million
pound deal then i can make two you know
i'm like yeah and i just felt like that
i can do it you know what i mean like i
just and also just like
i wanted to just show i wanted to
represent nowadays people from where i'm
from that speak like i speak don't
really get there
i just wanted to i wanted to master my
craft you know what i mean and i think
there's people out there that are
listening that will be like it could be
anything could be a plumber could be a
hairdresser if you have that feeling i
want to be excellent on my job
that was what i wanted to do you know
what i mean and then like you know i
made my money very very quickly i was
like 24 and i made my first million
pounds which is insane and like
the money came so quickly i didn't even
have time to start spending it and it
was just and it was so much it was so
crazy it was just like
um the thing is like when you make
you know 50 100 grand it feels great but
the kind of money i was making it just
felt insane it was almost scary i didn't
even know what you have to have to pinch
yourself like what on earth is going on
i remember like when i made my first
bonus like oh well when i was a kid my
dad used to start worked at the royal
mail in london i used to get the
training like 5 30 am every morning and
that train went right past my bedroom
window and i would look at my dad and
i'll try and wave at him and he did that
every
day for like 20 grand a year and when i
made all that money in one year it
almost felt disrespectful i don't want
to at all sound like i'm grateful for
what i've done but it was i had no idea
people initially made that kind of money
and it was a bit like um
it was a bit mad and then when that
happened i just thought look
i can make enough money quickly to get
in and get out and try and do something
i don't know a bit more meaningful um
so i never really had a chance to get
involved in that spending that kind of
money thing i've never been i've never
been very stylish guy you can probably
tell so like
yeah i don't know i just you know i use
the money to to
to be able to quit my job and now i use
that to support myself to do the work
that i'm doing and i live you know i
travel and i've i've got a little vest
bar by you know somebody asked what car
i've got i don't have a car like it's
just um you live in london you don't
really need one yeah
yeah yeah did you so when you first
started there did you ever like first
day walking in did you
because i know what you're saying you
think everyone there is smart and you
realize actually there are some idiots
that worked there just and
it was like
i realized that very very quickly like
what on earth and it's it for me it
almost took the shine off it because i
was like oh my god like here it's like
the it's the pinnacle like the people
who work here have got to be on it like
razor sharp and then you quickly
finally you know quickly find out well
actually
he's an idiot i could do better than him
i'm just as smart as him actually he's
dumb he's stupid as yeah there's a
there's always a few things by surprise
but i was lucky i worked with some
really smart people but i i there were
some people there that were not super
sharp but for me i was like it's an
opportunity man it's an opportunity
did you ever have that in an instance of
imposter syndrome at all like oh my god
you know what i've never really been
like i don't want to pick myself up
there's a guy here for my who knew me
when i was a kid during a chat by like i
was always the smartest kid in school
and i would always win like the
competitions and stuff and like
i went to lse which is a very fancy
union i was a top kid at lse so like you
know i don't know why it was just i was
always good at that stuff um
and i just i don't know i want to just
i always thought you were quietly
confident yeah if it's a fair
competition you know i never had you
know i never had no advantages you know
there was no desk in my home i did my
homework lying on the floor you know
what i mean but i was still beating
everyone in the exam so i kind of knew
i don't know it's just
it's a gift you know i'm lucky in that
sense but um
yeah i don't know i've always been
confident i've always when it come you
know i'm terrible at cricket but
you know when it comes to this kind of
stuff numbers i can do it i've always
been able to do it so um
yeah you know
why not me i always thought yeah
absolutely i used to say that to my team
in um in canada wharf you know and say
to guys that you know if if if you don't
do well somebody else will so why not
you like why shouldn't it be you and
like to a certain extent
i think for for many people
certainly for my background i think i i
definitely experienced it
i felt this whole thing of
why should i be the one in my family
who's earning six figures like why
should it be me like and like you said
it it's almost like
this is nuts like
if you think about it from where you
came from to where you are at that
moment in time
it just feels really surreal and crazy
and i and i
always thought why me why me and i
almost felt like
i'm worthy if that makes any sense i
think i think a lot of people from the
kind of backgrounds that are less
represented in these jobs feel that way
um and it can you can it can be when you
see sort of there's differences in the
way people dress and the way people talk
and it can be intimidating but um
i just want to say to like anybody who
maybe
you know talks like me or doesn't see
people that look like themselves in
these jobs like they're not smart as
they sound
trust me
they're not as smart as they sound like
don't let yourself be intimidated just
like
if you don't understand something ask
what it is just just
back yourself and believe in yourself
don't allow yourself to be intimidated
by the fact that they've got like they
look different you know i mean the fact
is i think if you come from
any sort of divine background and you
make it there you've probably got
something you know i mean so that
doesn't mean don't be overconfident you
need to do your work but um yeah you're
in the room by merit definitely exactly
exactly
especially nowadays increasingly you
know i mean like down in the city
there's not a lot of people from the
kind of background that i'm from that
you're from in those places so if you
get there you believe in yourself and
also like you know
you're representing you know i mean so
so do your best and don't let yourself
be like pushed down yeah and i would say
to anyone if you ever encounter someone
who you think
is better than you the best way to get
their guard down is go out for a drink
with them
and yeah very very quickly you'll find
out the real person behind the facade
that you saw the first time you met them
because it's very very rare that you
meet someone
and you see the real them
instantaneously very very very rare i
like one i'll say if people start in
like a get like a fancy job and it could
be in finance or could be in law at the
beginning nobody knows what they're
talking about so like if you think go in
and i've got no idea what's going on
that's normal because nobody knows
what's going on until
they've been there for a bit so just be
open man just be like look i've not done
this before i don't know what's going on
i'm smart and i want to learn and if you
don't understand ask about it like use
that first sort of six months to be like
look i don't know anything because i'm
new but i want to learn and if you do
that you'll be one of the best because
most people are there sort of trying to
make it sound like they do know like
don't it just go in and say
look i'm young but i'm smart i don't
know anything because i've not done this
job before like i went to llc and
everyone's giving it the big about all
of the cdos and mbs's and i would be in
there and i just i don't know what this
acronym means what does it mean i don't
know what this thing means what does it
mean just keep asking that's how you
learn so i think like um
in a lot of these fancy industries
there's a lot of but i just cut
through it and be like look i don't know
yet but i believe in myself so i'm here
to teach i'm here to be taught and you
know i was getting i got a lot of
coffees and i got a lot of lunches
because i wanted people to teach me and
that's how i became good that what i did
so um yeah don't be scared if when you
first turn up you don't know what the
hell's going on because that's normal
preach preach right i just want to have
a look at maybe some questions on here
there is one from uh jack
where is it
um i'd be keen to understand the
argument for tax in the wealthy versus
improving the public sector efficiency
what's your guys thoughts on the
statement all right so
my background is as an economist and as
a trader right so there's been this big
question of since 2008 why have we not
had a powerful economic recovery
and uh
it's basically accepted amongst
economists now that's because we don't
have enough spending so if you don't
have enough spending efficiency is great
always of course efficiency is great but
if you don't have enough spending then
if you improve your efficiency and you
just produce more
then it just means you can employ a
fewer people because you don't have the
end customers so we've had this like
of course efficiency is good you know
efficiency
depends what it means in different
circumstances but you want to be
efficient but ultimately if you don't
have the customers at the end then wages
will be low and there's not going to be
a lot of high paid jobs so you need
we've had this problem now for 12 13
years i probably should do a video about
this about needing more demand needing
more spending like to have
a good economy you need both good
production efficient production but also
customers anybody run a business will
know this you know what i mean you can
do like you can make the everything
perfectly you ain't got no customers
your business is going to fail and our
economy as a whole for the last since
2008 at least has been struggling for a
lack of customers so i'm saying we need
to push more spending into the economy
but i don't want it to come through
bigger government debt because that's
dangerous for the government and i don't
want it to come from unsustainable
spending from poor and ordinary people
who are struggling to buy houses that
spending needs to there's only one place
that is healthy from which that spending
can come and it's from the very rich
because they're stacking up more and
more we need more spending from those
people so of course there's a space for
efficiency but we have an underlying
economic problem here i've not enough
spending and we're not going to fix that
in a healthy way unless we get more
spending and taxing from the richest
fantastic cheers for that i'm just
having to look there's a couple of
mortgage questions on here because
obviously the banks have done what they
what they do
and prior to the mpc meeting on thursday
the mortgage rates have gone off the
back of the
the autumn budget so there are a couple
of mortgage questions in here i'm just
going to get to those really quickly
someone was asking they've got eight
months left
on their fixed rate
um
should they pay the penalty or two grand
penalty i would say for that one mate
um do the calculation probably
yeah two grand is a lot so do the
calculation if you went out of that now
into a fixed rate mortgage over a five
year period is it going to save you two
grand
probably not i mean i would i would
question what rate you're on right now
um if you're on a flex a tracker or a
standard variable you need to do the
math but two grand is a lot as a penalty
unless you're on a very very high rate
right now which are probably not because
you probably fixed before it's probably
not worth it um yeah two grand is a big
big feat of pace
but do your numbers yeah um
i'll say about you know rates are rising
i was an interest rate trader so um
you know the whole of my career people
would say to me should i get fixed or
floating and i would say look get
floating because rates aren't going to
go up and they would say oh but i saw in
the financial times rate is going to go
up in six months and i would say call me
in six months and they would be like how
did you know and every every six months
the financial time says rate's gonna go
up in six months okay that and they
never did for the last 30 years that's
not to say that they can't go up okay
they probably will go up
some small amount in the next few years
um
and there's a risk a small risk that
they go up a big amount um
in general it's cheaper to
take the shorter fixes or the floatings
you'll get a lower rate but you just
don't get the security um
i think it's a case of
how much risk you're prepared to take if
the five year rate the longer trackers
are way higher i generally
i generally point towards the
the lower rates of the shorter fixed
rates yeah um
but it all depends on whether you can
afford to take that risk you know for my
part as an interest rate trader i think
interest rates are very unlikely to go
very high and if they do it will be in a
situation where probably your house
price is rising significantly anyway um
so try and avoid the very high rates
that you might have to pay to get longer
term fixes um but of course that depends
on you having the financial capacity to
take a little bit more risk that you
have to take when you're taking short
fix or flooding
what's your view on um because the
consensus is that the
base rate will go up to point two five
percent
so yeah that's expected yeah that's
expected um
do you think you'll go much higher than
that i mean i think i thought it was the
focus it was 1.25 they were saying maybe
over the course of the next 12 months it
might go up to do you actually see that
happen i think it probably won't go up
that high um the thing is what's
happened in the last year with the money
printing is kind of unprecedented
there's been a huge amount of money
printing um that money hasn't
disappeared it's being held largely by
by richer people that's driving
inflation there is potential for that
inflation to go higher um
if inflation goes very high which i
think is unlikely but possible what
would you say is high because they're
saying four percent for the next 12 year
12 months so i could definitely go
four percent it will i think that will
happen it could easily go to five
percent you know okay
you know if it was go to like seven or
eight percent which is not impossible i
don't wanna panic people but that's not
impossible i'm not predicting it but
it's not impossible if that were to
happen then you might think the central
bank would be forced to move but
if that happens then i expect house
prices will be rising quite a lot as
well so you'll be kind of protected by
the increase in the price in the value
of your house um
you know
i was an interest rate trader i look at
these things a lot my expectation is
that inflation goes up to sort of four
or five percent maybe as high as six but
then comes back down interest rates
they might squeak up to one percent they
might squeak a little bit over i don't
see interest rates going sustainably
much higher than one percent i think
that's unlikely um if they do they'll be
in a very high inflation environment so
you can probably expect that inflation
is likely also to bring up the value of
your home
so um
you you'll probably be protected by the
rising price of your home but obviously
you need to make you need to be able to
make the interest payments yeah and do
you think that if it does go up to like
one percent it will be spread
um
incrementally across the 12 ma across
the next 12 months because the risk
there is if they go on increasingly say
by half a percent or something like that
it's quite a big shock to the system
they'll go slowly they'll go slowly
they'll go slowly yeah there's there
they've got no incentive to shock the
economy i think they're just trying to
they need they they want to appear
strong but they don't want to shock the
economy you know interest rates have
been zero for a long long long time in a
lot of countries um on occasions where
central banks have provided even minimal
shocks it's been really damaging to the
stock market for example and you know
given the state of the economy at the
moment the central bank doesn't want to
cause any shocks they will
they will telegraph it in advance which
is what they're doing now um and they'll
move slowly and i personally think it's
unlikely rates will go up significantly
above one percent if they do then it
will be in an environment of really
aggressively rising house prices and
probably inflation which might not be a
great thing but yeah i mean do you think
that the fed
will kind of i mean i know it's a
different geographical area they've got
their own problems over in the states
and stuff
but i think the bank meeting will be the
first major bank globally to to move in
this stance
if we see that move do you think that
might impact some of the policies here
for an acceleration they've always
connected they're always connected i
mean i've been looking at this exact
area for a long time and i've had this
debate many many times in my career
everybody's always like when the rates
got when the rates go up but history has
shown that
when they do go up they go up slowly and
they don't go up in sustained fashion
and i suspect that that will continue um
obviously some things have changed we've
got a much like i've said they've
printed a huge amount of money that has
the potential to be very inflationary um
but ultimately
unless there's a lot of customers it's
hard to see
i mean it's hard to basically unless
wages start going up then you're not
going to see sustained inflation i
suspect
yeah cool there was another one here um
look at the purchase first property here
how many years fixed rate would you
recommend was it good at five years i
mean you've already kind of uh touched
on this um
basically don't
don't pay massively more for a longer
fix unless you really need that security
that's my opinion um you know if i don't
know what the rates are now at the
moment do you know what the rates are at
the moment
the mortgage rates are very impressive
yeah they're moving around um but i know
that you depending on loan to values and
stuff like that you can have you have
been able to get into a couple of fixed
rate at one two percent there were i
mean yeah i think they're probably not
available right now my
if you know if you're paying sort of a
full percent extra for a five year over
two year my tendency and you might be
paying more than that my tenancy would
be to go with a two-year um
but as i say you need to be willing to
you know that involves risk um you'll
probably save money but it involves risk
um if you think you can afford to take
it do that and then you know do the
sensible thing
if you're taking out a large mortgage
overpay if you get some extra cash you
know try and reduce that debt to a
manageable amount you know as well as
making other investments if you think
that works for your situation yeah and
this is why i said on the live guys like
you know
if if this is gonna spook you or you're
worried about it it's really important
to kind of understand your financial
situation so a4 line down the middle
income expenditure figure out what it is
that you've got so you can actually plan
your finances and then you can sit down
pragmatically and look at okay what's
the cost for a two year fixed or a five
year fixed you're going to be paying
more in the five year because of the
fact that you're getting more security
over the longer term but that you'll be
able to plan for that financial
commitment
if it suits you and having an
overarching view of what your your
financial situation is what enable to
enable you to make an informed decision
as opposed to kind of looking at it and
thinking oh i'm going to panic and then
just do something that may not
necessarily be the smartest thing so you
know make sure that you're you're
starting with the very very basics
um
what else we got here i'm just trying to
have a look there was one here about how
old i am i think because i mentioned
something about um 1998 coming back to
the country and lorinda actually got the
answer right actually i'm 42 in
actually this well november 22nd so
first november tomorrow so it's my
birthday month um
[Music]
what is this about mark zuckerberg uh
people need to learn to think about the
real world not getting distracted by
mark zuckerberg metaverse you know what
i've been looking at the metaverse
though yeah you buy her
well you know what
i don't know it
it's a real mind it's a real mind meld
because
i can see it but i don't understand it
you know what it reminds me of you
watched um ready player one
i don't think so it's a computer game
movie right yeah basically it's a movie
and it is about um a world where you
could you can literally have a virtual
life
like virtual reality the whole thing
that's what i think about when i think
about the metaverse yeah but i saw
somebody post on twitter saying he's
reinvented hubba hotel
yeah
yeah i mean i'm not a stock picker more
than you than me but we'll see how it
goes i guess i'm not convinced but maybe
i'm a bit too much of a skeptic
yeah i don't i don't know i mean i can
see it virtual reality augment reality
all that kind of stuff
but it's it's really really fascinating
to me it feels as though the younger
generation are a lot more clued into
this than than i possibly could ever be
but
the fact that you know look look at the
size of facebook if they they make that
i think they're saying it was going to
be you know internet 3.0
and and with that kind of
label
put on it i think you have to pay
attention to it so i'm i'm trying to get
my head around
what that actually looks like because it
then crosses over into the world of nfts
and crypto and you know decentraland and
all that kind of stuff it's very very
fascinating really really fascinating
uh what else we got here someone said if
you've got the cash to pay off your
mortgage totally should you pay off
um i'd say it's a personal choice
um
i always advise a sense of middle ground
pay some off make a nice chunky
overpayment
and then also
start to build some sensible
stock investments on the side it's a
nice diversified way
then you've got property but you've also
got some stock which is a bit more
liquid
you've got your debt down to a nice
manageable level i personally
you know i'm wealthy enough that i don't
have to have mortgages but i do use
mortgages because i think it gives me a
bit more flexibility to
make a variety of investments um but
obviously
it's riskier the safest thing to do is
just totally pay off um
it totally depends on your personal
situation and your personal appetite for
risk um
but i think i think having a small
mortgage you know everybody wants to be
mortgage free it sounds great but i
think having a small mortgage and also
a sensible stock portfolio is perhaps a
nice place to be as well yeah i
definitely agree with that whether you
should or not is completely down to how
you feel waking up in the morning like
if you paid off the house altogether
would would you feel massively different
would you feel freer if the answer to
that is yes then maybe you should but if
the answer to that is well actually
not really
then
i i
in this conversation i think about
what the conversations have to have with
a wealthy client because wealthy people
do use mortgages because if it's cheap
to borrow money why would you use your
liquid cash or cash to actually go and
pay off something when you can borrow
against it for cheap
particularly if it's a investment
property where you can also get a yield
as well it's there are so many
facilities out there but because this is
your residential property it's the
question of does it make you feel more
safe more secure from a mindset point of
view if you did
if it's really really important to you
that absolutely but i think that you
have to then on the other coin think
about okay if you did have that much
money about and you put it into the
stock market yes you've got to take the
risk and so on and so forth but if you
did it prudently thinking about the
compound effect that that could actually
have over a 10 or 15 year period that
you would have been using to pay off
your mortgage anyway
you could amass more arguably in the
stock market than if you did just pay
using that cash to pay off the property
although the property will appreciate in
value so
it really it's a personal choice really
and it's all about what you feel just be
careful obviously
if you're if you choose to invest in the
stock market with that money that could
go into your mortgage just bear in mind
you know you're that you're kind of
you're using borrowed money in a sense
so
perhaps be a little bit less uh risk
seeking in the stock market don't dump
it all into tesla don't dump it all into
bitcoin
because if that's money you need to pay
your mortgage off
i would recommend if you want to put in
the stock market
put it in a you know a basket you know
don't put everything into one risky
share or crypto obviously yeah don't go
and start yolo in into like any kind of
like meme stock with borrowed money
they're always or anything like that
just yeah don't i i've had a couple of
questions before saying you know should
i take out a loan to invest in the
market i'm just like no
no
definitely don't do that i agree with
that um
cool i think that's pretty much it
really to be honest mate i appreciate
you for being on here and spending this
time with us on the sunday evening
um so okay um you're right in the book
at a minute are you kind of where are
you with the book at the minute uh it's
not going to be out for a while but um i
want to write a book about my time as a
trader and i learn and hopefully it'll
be great but um i'd love to say go out
and buy it but it's a long long way from
done but if people follow me i'm on all
i'm on all channels twitter facebook
instagram youtube all gary's economics
when the book is ready which will be a
long time away it will be pushed heavily
on my channel so uh
people wanna people are interested
follow me and you will definitely not in
the beginning yeah go follow and i'm
sure someone asked you this no i think
you i listened to one of your interviews
on the radio and the last question was
when's the uh career in politics
oh yeah yeah yeah people
ask me that yeah sometimes i wonder
whether i could have more influence in
that space i mean the problem is you
know i see
a lot of people are skeptical of
politicians once you go on you know if i
was to join the labour party i have to
say the labor party line and it's just
like i want to say what i believe and
what the truth is um
but look at the moment i think i can i'm
trying to build a presence in the media
um
if at some point i think i could have
more of an impact in politics i might
choose that but i just don't want to
i don't want to have to say what i'm
told to say right now like nobody's
paying me to say what i say you know um
so
people out there know they can believe
me i've got no financial incentive to
say the things that i say so um
but yeah look i'm open to it but it's
not something i'm thinking about at the
moment maybe maybe you're on political
party in a whole you know kind of
disruptive
approach to the entire thing because i
think
one of the big things is obviously
you're relatable
everybody kind of they can understand
the way you're speaking and you speak a
lot of sense as well so
who knows might come along a bit later
on mate yeah i'll need um i'll need to
build my uh presence up a bit more so
people go and follow me
definitely go and follow for sure all
right mate cool i appreciate it thank
you so much if you are joining us and
you have stuck all the way through this
i appreciate you too if you're watching
on a replay appreciate you even more um
if you haven't subscribed to the channel
subscribe um and yeah look go and follow
gary across twitter uh
twitter instagram and youtube as well
that will help massively but yeah i'll
be back with another live um probably on
wednesday midweek actually i've got a
few meetings in london this week
um
i mean only for three i've got to travel
back and forth from london i'm staying
one night that i've got to come back
again for another for another meeting on
friday so
lives might be a bit sparse but i have
been i have been trying and if you guys
follow the channel i've been trying
different upload times um
to kind of see what can work around my
schedule in the new year so um
videos this week will be there there
will be some lives as well but just keep
an eye i will sign post them i do have
andy webb who is from uh be clever with
your cash on the show on the 10th of
november he's going to be giving some
money tips around maybe some of the key
offers that you might be able to take
advantage of in the run-up to christmas
and some other good money-saving tips
and all this kind of stuff he did a
great piece on um sky glass and whether
someone should actually go get it or not
i've decided not to go get it because
it's not worth it um so yeah he's going
to be on november 10th but i appreciate
you um have a good evening whatever it
is you do and gary thanks again mate
thanks pete thanks everyone yes guys
catch you later on